We caught up with the 17-year-old rifler following his return to North America after playing overseas for most of the year on Complexity.

Owen "⁠oBo⁠" Schlatter returned to the United States less than two weeks ago after stepping down from Complexity's active roster midway through the ESL Pro League season. The young American talent had spent the majority of the year in various European countries after his team made the decision to play in this region when tournaments transitioned to an online setting due to the coronavirus pandemic.


oBo says he did not leave Complexity because he was homesick
In this interview, oBo explained how he still has no problem with playing in Europe for extended periods of time but took issue with the fact that there seemed to be no end in sight to Complexity's time overseas, leading to his departing. He also touched on his plans moving forward and how he plans to remain in shape as he awaits the "right opportunity."

You spent more or less the whole year in Europe, playing for Complexity from the UK and various other countries during the pandemic. Can you explain what that experience was like from your side, both in terms of playing on the team and also your day-to-day outside of the game? How many times did you have to move to a different location?

I lived out of many different hotels in Denmark, Serbia, and the United Kingdom. There were many undesirable playing conditions during the journey. These unfortunate circumstances are what made the experience despairing, not just the locations themselves.

This was not anyone's fault, as it was only natural to happen when you have a Dallas-based team living in a foreign continent with zero infrastructure. I did the best I could and am glad for the success we had.

I was given zero reason to believe that things would change any time soon, if ever.
Owen "⁠oBo⁠" Schlatter
In a statement, you explained that it seemed like there was “no end in sight” to living in Europe. Why did you feel that was the case?

The team showed no interest in ever returning to America, and I don’t blame them. They are comfortable at home with their families during this unprecedented time. As the year went on, it was becoming more and more apparent that this was a permanent living situation rather than a temporary one. I was given zero reason to believe that things would change any time soon, if ever.

According to Jason Lake, you had initially informed Complexity that you would finish out the ESL Pro League season with them, but ended up leaving ahead of the playoffs. What led to that sudden departure?

With civil unrest and inevitable lockdowns returning to the UK, I was not willing to risk being trapped in a foreign country. I never signed up to live in a foreign continent indefinitely, and after many months of uncertainty I made the very difficult decision. When I gave the news, the team had over a week to find a player for the upcoming EPL matches. I wish I could have given the team more time, but if I waited any longer I would only be wasting precious time for them to find a suitable replacement.

I did not leave because I was ‘homesick’ or anything like that. I did not feel secure staying where I was.
Owen "⁠oBo⁠" Schlatter
From the outside, it may be easy for people to criticize your decision to jump ship and return to the US, especially since Complexity were enjoying some success. Was there something specific that prompted you to make the decision now, after all this time?

I never signed up to live in Europe permanently. I did my best to make it work and stay for as long as possible, but I can’t be expected to stay forever. I was of course missing home, but I did not leave because I was ‘homesick’ or anything like that. I did not feel secure staying where I was.

How is your relationship with the rest of the team, given your sudden departure?

As good as can be expected.

Complexity was your first challenge at a high level. How would you describe your time there?

Complexity was my first professional team and it was a very big opportunity for me. I grew a lot as a player during my time there, and I am grateful for the success we had. Winning BLAST and becoming a top-five ranked team were both big milestones for me, I wish this chapter could have ended differently.

I won’t commit to a project unless I believe we have what it takes to become a world-class team.
Owen "⁠oBo⁠" Schlatter
With Counter-Strike shaping up to be very Europe-focused in 2021, where do you think that leaves you?

It really depends on what Jason and Complexity decide to do with my contract. I will be back and competing as soon as I find the right opportunity. I am always more than willing to bootcamp and be in Europe for extended periods of time.

You’ve now returned to North America, but there aren’t any top teams looking to make changes to their roster at the moment. How do you plan to stay in shape while you look for a new team to call home, and what sort of opportunity are you looking for?

I am playing FPL and training my mechanics constantly. I will continue to do everything I can to be in my best form possible when I return. I won’t commit to a project unless I believe we have what it takes to become a world-class team.

Gen.G has been tipped as a possible destination for you. Is this a project that is to your liking? Would you be open to playing for them?

Anything is possible.